let me show you something dude the quick
decision it's not always the best one
which is why we're going to be taking a
slow and steady look at two of the
bestselling gaming headsets both from
Turtle
Beach oh I get it I'm a turtle I found a
beach cool but are these headsets cool
the Recon 50 and Recon 70 combined have
over
192,000 ratings on Amazon and
considering that only an estimated 3% of
consumers leave reviews Turtle Beach
must have sold somewhere in the ballpark
of 6 million units of these on Amazon
alone similar to the number of sea
turtles left in the world down it bro so
let's not think about that instead let's
think about why the expit of Laden
chuckle balls everyone is buying these
now normally we try to focus on a single
product for this series but considering
that these two differ by only $15 and
just a few thousand ratings we figed
we'll check out both to see if the extra
money would be better spent on a small
upgrade or maybe on our sponsor next too
their anniversary sale is on right now
and that means you can bundle up the
Aurora Pro projector and a 100in Fresno
screen saving $1,000 we'll have a link
in the description where you can check
that out that way
[Music]
for nearly 20 years Turtle Beach made
their name producing music software and
sound cards and it wasn't until the mid
2000s that the company became the gaming
headset manufacturer for Xbox Gamers
including the 2007 release of the first
wireless gaming headset at least
according to this GameStop video with
486 views later they became official
partners with the now defunct MLG then
went public in 2014 acquired German Tech
brand rockat in 2019 and now they're
doing AE bill in annual revenue but are
their headphones any good let's find out
starting with the $25 Recon 50s as you
might expect at this price point the
build is all plastic save for the
electronics and a couple of screws not
even the headband or even the headband
adjustment mechanism has any metal in it
that's a disappointment and so is the
overall feel they're creaky
and squeaky though to their credit the
ear cups do tilt and rotate for better
Comfort though the cushion up here is
best described as per funter why even
bother at this point the leather on the
ear cups is more faux than Vietnamese
soup and while they are removable the
mechanism that holds these on can be
described as hateful forcing me to reach
for my iFixit kit every time I want to
reattach them they're also relatively
small and shallow so if you have large
ears or ones that that poke out a little
you may find them quite uncomfortable
after about 3 minutes also on the small
side is the length of the non- removable
cable within line controls the cable
terminates to a combo 32 mm plug and
works great for plugging into your
controller or laptop if you want to use
it on a desktop you're going to need an
extension and probably a combo Jack
splitter since they don't include one in
the Box what is included though is the
detachable gooseneck mic and I've got to
say
wow I mean obviously it's not going to
sound amazing next to our studio
microphone and it doesn't have the best
ambient noise rejection even picking up
sounds from cable movement and the
poorly isolated driver housing but
that's nothing that some software noise
cancellation can't overcome and under
ideal conditions it manages sound
quality that would be the Envy of gaming
headsets more than four times the price
honestly if the only thing in this box
was this mic I would say that it's an
okay value unfortunately the rest of it
was also there and Andrew from
headphones.com who tested it for us had
this to
say now I think he's being a touch
melodramatic but even objectively
speaking they're not great this dotted
line here is our Target representing a
sound signature that will appeal to most
people the purple line is the average
measured response of the Recon
50s starting at the left then B
performance Falls far below the volume
that we would expect from good sounding
headphones then the lower mids are a bit
overdone maybe to try to compensate for
the lacking base not great but not too
bad yet it's not until the upper mids in
treble where things get ugly you see
this big dip at 5 khz that has a huge
impact on sound and is what colors it in
such an unpleasant way resulting in a
cheap and Tiny sound signature the
bizarre thing is we couldn't even come
up with a gaming justification for this
tuning like uh oh yeah they sound like
garbage because they enhance footsteps
or whatever that was the excuse many
gaming headset Brands used over the
years and they just haven't even
bothered these just sound bad on par or
maybe even worse than some of the
hardware store and AliExpress specials
we've looked at recently and adding
insult to injury when we turned them up
the quality went down even further
distorting to the point where they were
downright unpleasant to listen to of
course if you're spending
$25 maybe you're happy with a good
microphone that happens to have some
functional headphones attached to it or
maybe you're not maybe you wonder about
the One That Got
Away the one that cost $15 more dollars
that one is the Recon 70 the packaging
and included goodies or lack thereof is
hardly different from the Recon 50s and
the build while similar in size and
materials to the Recon 50 is much more
robust and significantly less squeaky
the ear cups are thicker and a little
bit larger and the pad on the headband
feels like less of a joke but also has
this rib down the middle of it that
feels like it's going to find its way to
your skull pretty
quick head adjustments are better though
the volume adjustment has moved from the
still a bit too short cable to the left
ear cup though so so far so
good but do they sound better let's
start with the which is located on the
left ear cup as is tradition and is now
on a swivel arm that auto mutes when
it's tipped up but is no longer
detachable and unfortunately no longer
excellent it's still okay but it was
kind of disappointing to see such a step
down coming from its cheaper sibling
hopefully the same isn't true of the
headphones themselves oh it's not that's
much better in fact I would even say
adequate for the price point Point while
the' 70s do still struggle with base
reproduction less Rumble and more humble
if you know what I mean the mids are
more in line with our Target and that
awful treble dip from the Recon 50s is
completely absent making them both more
accurate and more pleasant to listen to
but why are you guys buying them well as
it turns out they're cheap and thanks to
their tried and true 3 and2 mm interface
they just plain work huh that is until
they don't we scoured the Amazon reviews
for both of these and they Tor us some
things for starters most of you guys are
actually happy with the sound quality of
both Recons yes even the ' 50s and like
I'm happy for you but it does make me
kind of wonder about the folks giving
five stars to these compared to nothing
yeah they're going to give you a
Competitive Edge but I guess that gives
you some idea of the Discerning of the
typical buyer of a Comm headset not all
of you were happy though as you would
expect most of the onear reviews for
both headsets focused on concerns about
longevity we saw many complaints about
Comfort which is obviously going to vary
a bit from person to person but does not
surprise me based on the overall build
quality of especially the Recon 50s and
also especially on the Recon 50s we saw
a lot of complaints about the mic so
when it works it's great as we just
showed you but the reviews were full of
reports of loose connections resulting
in audio dropouts static and even the
mic just falling out due to poor
tolerances we also saw some feedback
that the mics are too quiet which is a
problem that we encountered when we were
recording the clips you heard before in
audacity the mics needed to be boosted
pretty heavily but what's weird is we
didn't encounter those problems in calls
or on Discord so your mileage may vary
where does this leave us then the Recon
50s are really hard to recommend for
their price they work and the mic is
kind of outstanding but honestly I'd
rather see you guys skip your next Uber
Eats and spring for the Recon 7s instead
with their still good mic and much
better audio reproduction and comfort
with that said though neither of these
really knocked my socks off and if you
can be patient and snag a deal the
hyperx cloud X can be found for about 40
bucks the same as the Recon 70s they're
all around decent quite sturdy and could
end up saving you money in the long run
by just lasting longer or if you want to
go Wireless the Logitech g435 are a
great option there just whatever you do
do not buy them direct from Logitech get
them on sale pretty much anywhere else
and it's also worth noting those will
not work with Xbox they might work
though to hear our sponsor back blazs
sometimes it disasters happen and it
feels like your entire business is about
to come crumbling down prevention of
those situations should always be top of
mind but how you recover from them is
equally as important enter back Blaze
starting at just n bucks a month you get
unlimited data backup through centrally
managed admin that you can access from
anywhere on any platform you can even
get one year of retention history for
free meaning your files are saved for
longer plus when it comes down to
actually retrieving your data it's as
simple as downloading them back or you
can even get a USB drive shipped
directly to you just mail it back for a
full refund they have over three
exabytes of data under their management
and we use them at lmg to back up our
data nightly so sign up today at back
blaze.com LT for a 15-day free trial
with no credit card required thanks for
watching do you guys own this headset or
another Turtle Beach headset let us know
in the comments and if you like this
video why not check out our why is
everybody buying this controller video
to learn more about controllers that
don't cost as much as an entire game